Cartoons to Improve Cyber Security Education:

Snow White in Browser in the Middle

Christian Catalano1, Alessandro Pagano2, Antonio Piccinno2 and
Alessandro Stamerra2

1University of Salento, Lecce, LE 73100, Italy
2University of Bari Aldo Moro, Department of Computer Science, Via Edoardo Orabona 4, Bari, Italy

           Abstract

              Cyber Security Education is considered one of the key challenges of recent years. The increase in cyber
              attacks requires not only technical experts but also an increase in the awareness of users using technolog-
              ical devices. ENISA (European Union Agency for Cybersecurity) provides a common understanding of
              the relevant roles, competences, skills and knowledge required in cybersecurity and supports the design
              of training programs related to cybersecurity. Therefore, the paper proposes using cartoons to educate
              the user to recognize a cyber attack such as Browser in the Middle. It consists in interposing a transparent
              Browser between the victim and the attacker in order to steal not only credentials but sessions and
              sensitive data. Through the story of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, one has the possibility to tell
              how the computer attack can be successful, therefore the evil witch who manages to poison Snow White
              through the apple, and at the same time a parallel way to save Snow White and therefore prevent the
              attack from happening, via a mitigation that allows URL parsing. The general aim is therefore to improve
              the skills, knowledge and skills in cyber security also through the education of cartoons.

           Keywords

              Browser-in-the-Middle, Cyber Security, Cartoons, Cyber Attack

1. Introduction

Technological development has made the user experience increasingly vulnerable to cyber
attacks of various types and various purposes such as scams with financially fraudulent ends or
the objective of stealing data and information to blackmail and negatively influence any victim
[1, 2].

   Therefore in this scenario, cyber security education is considered one of the key challenges
facing the modern digitized world [3, 4]. The scientific and reference community is engaged on
several fronts in order to be able to raise the level of awareness and education on cyber security
such as the ENISA framework (ECSF - European Cybersecurity Skills Framework) that provides
a tool to build a common understanding of the cybersecurity professional role profiles and
common mappings with the appropriate skills and competences required [5, 6]; CyBOK (Cyber

IS-EUD 2023: 9th International Symposium on End-User Development, 6-8 June 2023, Cagliari, Italy
Corresponding author.
These authors contributed equally.
Envelope christian.catalano@unisalento.it (C. Catalano); alessandro.pagano@uniba.it (A. Pagano);

antonio.piccinno@uniba.it (A. Piccinno); a.stamerra1@studenti.uniba.it (A. Stamerra)

                    ® 2023 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).

CEUR Workshop Proceedings (CEUR-WS.org) CEUR

Workshop
Proceedings
http://ceur-ws.org
ISSN 1613-0073
Security Body of Knowledge) that aims to codify the foundational and generally recognized
knowledge on cybersecurity [7].

   In particular, in [7] academia and industry met to discuss the top-level knowledge areas (KAs)
that CyBOK should integrate. Supermarket metaphor was used to encourage participants to
KAs they considered key to include in the CyBOK.

   Consequently, considering the metaphor example, security awareness training can be im-
proved by using pop culture references and gamification techniques to make critical concepts
more understandable [8, 9]. Using a cartoon or a familiar icon can leverage the power of familiar
images, allowing new data to be better absorbed. [8].

   According to a study of Cheung et al. [10], Disney films combine entertainment with life
lessons about love, friendship, good versus evil death and loss, and the importance of family.
The gamification [11] in cyber security education can bring that sense of healthy competition
into the workplace for the better [8].

   With this in mind and considering the possibility of using scenarios familiar to the user, the
following research proposes the use of cartoons to be able to educate the user to recognize a
cyber attack such as Browser in the Middle [12].

   We identified, in according to Nice Framework [13], three key elements to the cyber security
education through cartoons: (i) Competencies that provide a mechanism to assess learns; (ii)
Knowledge, a retrievable set of concepts within memory; (iii) Skill, the capacity to perform an
observable action. Figure 1 shows the schema that we adopted to explain cyber attacks with
cartoons.

Figure 1: Cyber Security Education through Cartoons

2. Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs in the Browser in the
   Middle attack

The goal of various types of attacks such as Man in the Middle, Man in the Browser, Browser
in the Browser, Browser in the Middle, Mobile Application in the Middle, is to use malware
generally managed between victim client, server and attacking client to obtain important access
data or manage active sessions.

   In order to educate users to recognize these types of attacks, we propose mitigation that tries
to briefly explain defence techniques in an elementary way. The general steps to educate the
user on correct navigation are described, thus avoiding various types of attacks such as DoS,
phishing or MitM (Man in the Middle).

   To analyze an example of attack simulation, the Browser-in-the-Middle study was deepened
by carrying out a parallel analysis between the fairy tale of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs"
and the attack itself. In the same way, a mitigation proposal is made, explaining how various
techniques developed can guarantee the protection of the user and in the story of "Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs", the protection of the protagonist from the poisoned apple represented
by the computer attack. The goal is to raise awareness of correct navigation by explaining
in a fun way, through a fairy tale, what could happen in the event of an attack and possibly
defending against it.

2.1. Browser-in-the-Middle

The Browser in the Middle (BitM) attack differs from the Man in the Middle (MitM) attack
precisely in the ease of implementation through various techniques such as phishing [12].
Continuous monitoring allows real-time analysis of the victim's actions and behaviors. The
latter is unaware that someone can control it because the victim's browser is replaced with a
malicious browser that is located on the attack server. A transparent browser is then placed
between the victim's official browser and the web server used by the user to use the services.
The purpose, on the part of the attacker, is to intercept, record and manipulate any data exchange
in order to steal information.

   In order to better explain the various stages of the BitM attack, reference is made to the
Walt Disney animated story "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" where the characters are
represented in the figure of Snow White (the victim of the attack), the seven dwarfs who
help the protagonist (the mitigation of the Browser-in-the-Middle attack), the queen who turns
into the wicked witch (the phishing attempt to carry out the BitM attack). From the perspective
of the victim (Snow White), the steps are listed as follows [Fig.2]:

     À Snow White receives from the wicked witch the poisoned apple represented in reality
       by the victim who, through social engineering techniques, receives the malicious URL
       from the attacker. Snow White trusts the received apple to be able to make her actually
       poisoned apple pie. The user therefore does not check the connection and does not notice
       what the "onclick" event points to;

     À Snow White eats the apple and makes a wish but receives the poison. In the event of the
       attack the server then sends the JavaScript code to the client ("noVNC client");

     À The poison starts circulating in Snow White's body, therefore the JavaScript code, once
       present on the victim's machine, starts a WebSocket connection (through the HTTP
       channel);

     À The received apple looked as inviting as a normal apple. Even phishing sites look inviting
       as clones of official sites in terms of graphics. Through the JavaScript client then, the web
       server exposes a web page that is configured to encapsulate the page at the URL that the
       victim tried to access and thus be the legitimate one, hence showing the same appearance.
       The victim was then tricked into being Snow White herself with the poisoned apple;
     À The last step is the phase in which the unaware user enters the credentials on this page,
       credentials that end up in a database on the malicious server useful to the attacker who
       will use them on the official site to access them in the name of the user to whom the
       attack took place. The goal is also to continue interception by manipulating traffic and the
       session itself. The user then loses her identity, a bit like Snow White who momentarily
       dies. She can only be awakened with the first kiss of love represented with an attack
       mitigation technique to prevent it.

Figure 2: Browser in the Middle [12] in the story of "Snow White"

3. BitM mitigation on Desktop devices

The goal of the mitigation is the creation of a protocol useful for mitigating BitM attacks on both
Desktop and Mobile systems, on which attention is paid precisely due to the recent diffusion
compared to older attacks such as Man in the Middle and Man in the Browser [14, 15].

   The proposed mitigation consists in the development of software for the real-time control of
the websites accessed by the user. Since the Browser in the Middle attack consists precisely in an
attempt to induce the user to open a link through phishing, the mitigation software developed in
Python allows the user to be protected and warned through the following steps briefly [Fig.3]:
    1. Get the real-time history of the page viewed by the user on his browser, then save each
       URL;

    2. Check the following URLs using the online tool Safe Web for trustworthiness rating i.e.
       how websites affect on users' computers. The evaluation will report the following results:
       "Secure", "Untested", "Dangerous" or "Caution" (in the fairy tale it can be compared to
       the fruit basket that the wicked witch carries containing only a poisoned apple);

    3. The result is shown on the Python terminal by performing a Web Scraping of the Safe
       Web site, then grafting the respective URL you want to test;

    4. If the analysis returns the certainty of the website's security as a result, then the user can
       continue browsing normally (the apple is not poisoned so Snow White is safe);

    5. If instead the analysis returns: "Untested", "Dangerous" or "Caution", then a warning
       is shown to the user, notifying that the same URL, not being safe, is blacklisted in the
       Windows hosts file in so that any subsequent action is rejected (the apple is poisoned; if
       it is not discarded then it can lead to the death of Snow White).

Figure 3: BitM mitigation steps

3.1. URL classification control

The ultimate goal of the mitigation is to ensure that the website that is scanned and classified
as "safe" can function properly. The characters of the fairy tale "Snow White and the Seven
Dwarfs" describe various situations that can happen. In the case of checking a secure site, it
means that the wicked witch fails to deliver the poisoned apple to Snow White (phishing attack)
with the help of the seven dwarfs (database check).

   In case the scanned site is classified as "Untested", "Dangerous" or "Caution", the newly
executed site is automatically moved to a blacklist. A message box is then shown through the
use of the "easygui" library, which warns the user of the actions that will be performed precisely
to prevent the attack Browser in the Middle to be successful, also specifying which URL is the
one classified as unsafe. In case the scanned site is classified as "Not Tested", "Dangerous" or
"Warning", the newly run site is automatically moved to a blacklist. A message window is then
shown through the use of the "easygui" library, which warns the user of the actions that will be
performed to prevent the attack Browser in the Middle is successful, also specifying which URL
is the one classified as unsafe.

Figure 4: Navigation awareness

   In the story of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, the classification of the unsafe site can be
compared to the actual encounter between the Wicked Witch and Snow White.

     À In the case of "Untested" classification, the story can be compared to the queen who turns
       into an evil witch. No one can therefore carry out an immediate evaluation of the new
       witch (therefore of the new site which will be a phishing attempt, therefore it is blocked);

     À In the case of classification "Dangerous", the story can be compared to the evil witch
       who gives Snow White the poisoned apple (the victim who receives the malicious link to
       launch the Browser-in-the-Middle attack);

     À In the case of classification "Attention", the story can be compared to Snow White meeting
       a poor old lady who asks for help but who is actually the wicked witch (site that apparently
       looks like the official one but is actually a phishing attempt).

   Subsequently, the site is written to the Windows "hosts" file with the "append" function in
order to add parts of text and not overwrite the existing ones. In the file it will be allowed to add
the IP address (always set to the local 127.0.0.1 as a redirect) and the URL considered malicious.

4. Conclusions

The paper aims to investigate how the use of Disney cartoons can improve cyber security
education. In particular, in this first step, we focused on being able to map a security attack
such as Browser in the Middle to the fairy tale of "Snow White". This was performed with
consideration of the skills a user must acquire to recognize a BitM attack, the knowledge from
the application of the fairy tale characters in explaining the various steps of the attack, and
finally the Competency to assess learns.

   The latter element will be verified in the next step of the research. We are planning an
experiment with bachelor's degree students to assess the skills acquired through the explanation
of "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs in the Browser in the Middle", and both in the company
to be able to improve the awareness of non-technical employees about cybersecurity.

   Briefly, the mitigation of the attack, explained through the fairy tale, reported as a positive
aspect the ability in real time to be able to block the execution of the attack through the analysis
of the URLs, while as a negative aspect the non-protection of privacy, as the mitigation software
reads every URL the user navigates to and hardware performance usage as the program is
continuously running [16]. For future developments, in fact, we are thinking of developing
a Chrome extension that performs the same operations, so as not to have to use an external
program [17].

Acknowledgments

This study has been partially supported by the following projects: SSA (Secure Safe Apulia ¡
Regional Security Center, Codice Progetto 6ESURE5) and KEIRETSU (Codice Progetto V9UFIL5)
funded by "Regolamento regionale della Puglia per gli aiuti in esenzione n. 17 del 30/09/2014
(BURP n. 139 suppl. del 06/10/2014) TITOLO II CAPO 1 DEL REGOLAMENTO GENERALE
"Avviso per la presentazione dei progetti promossi da Grandi Imprese ai sensi dell'articolo 17 del
Regolamento"; and SERICS (Security and Rights In the CyberSpace - PE00000014) under the MUR
National Recovery and Resilience Plan funded by the European Union - NextGenerationEU.

References

 [1] F. Tommasi, C. Catalano, M. Fornaro, I. Taurino, Mobile session fixation attack in micro-
      payment systems, IEEE Access 7 (2019) 41576¡41583.

 [2] V. S. Barletta, D. Caivano, M. De Vincentiis, A. Magrý, A. Piccinno, Quantum optimization
      for iot security detection, in: V. Julißn, J. Carneiro, R. S. Alonso, P. Chamoso, P. Novais
      (Eds.), Ambient Intelligence--Software and Applications--13th International Symposium
      on Ambient Intelligence, Springer International Publishing, Cham, 2023, pp. 187¡196.

 [3] R. Pirta-Dreimane, A. Brilingait, G. Majore, B. J. Knox, K. Lapin, K. Parish, S. S³tterlin, R. G.
      Lugo, Application of intervention mapping in cybersecurity education design, Frontiers in
      Education 7 (2022). URL: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/feduc.2022.998335.
      doi:1 0 . 3 3 8 9 / f e d u c . 2 0 2 2 . 9 9 8 3 3 5 .

 [4] V. S. Barletta, F. Cassano, A. Pagano, A. Piccinno, New perspectives for cyber security in
      software development: when end-user development meets artificial intelligence, in: 2022
      International Conference on Innovation and Intelligence for Informatics, Computing, and
      Technologies (3ICT), 2022, pp. 531¡534. doi:10.1109/3ICT56508.2022.9990622.

 [5] ENISA, European cybersecurity skills framework role profiles (2022). URL: https://www.
enisa.europa.eu/publications/european-cybersecurity-skills-framework-role-profiles?v2=

1.

[6] ENISA, European cybersecurity skills framework (ecsf) - user manual (2022). URL: https:

//www.enisa.europa.eu/publications/european-cybersecurity-skills-framework-ecsf?v2=1.

[7] A. Rashid, G. Danezis, H. Chivers, E. Lupu, A. Martin, M. Lewis, C. Peersman, Scoping the

cyber security body of knowledge, IEEE Security Privacy 16 (2018) 96¡102. doi:10.1109/

MSP.2018.2701150.

[8] S. Poremba,    What cartoons can teach us about cyberattacks,                    Se-

cuity Intelligence (2019). URL: https://securityintelligence.com/articles/

what-cartoons-can-teach-us-about-cyberattacks/.

[9] M. T. Baldassarre, V. S. Barletta, D. Caivano, D. Raguseo, M. Scalera, Teaching cyber

security: The hack-space integrated model, in: Italian Conference on Cybersecurity, 2019.

[10] M. Cheung, C. A. Leung, Y.-J. Huang, Absentee parents in disney feature-length animated

movies: What are children watching?, Child and Adolescent Social Work Journal (2022).

URL: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10560-021-00799-0. doi:10.1007/s10560- 021- 00799- 0.

[11] V. S. Barletta, F. Caruso, T. Di Mascio, A. Piccinno, Serious games for autism based

on immersive virtual reality: A lens on methodological and technological challenges, in:

M. Temperini, V. Scarano, I. Marenzi, M. Kravcik, E. Popescu, R. Lanzilotti, R. Gennari,

F. De La Prieta, T. Di Mascio, P. Vittorini (Eds.), Methodologies and Intelligent Systems for

Technology Enhanced Learning, 12th International Conference, Springer International

Publishing, Cham, 2023, pp. 181¡195.

[12] F. Tommasi, C. Catalano, I. Taurino, Browser-in-the-middle (bitm) attack, International

Journal of Information Security 21 (2021) 179 ¡ 189.

[13] R. Petersen, D. Santos, M. C. Smith, K. A. Wetzel, G. Witte, Workforce framework for

cybersecurity (NICE framework), NIST Special Publication 800-801 (2020). URL: https:

//nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-181r1.pdf. doi:10.6028/NIST.

SP.800-181r1.

[14] M. Angelelli, C. Catalano, D. Hill, H. Koshutanski, C. Pascarelli, J. Rafferty, A reference

architecture proposal for secure data management in mobile health, in: 2022 7th Inter-

national Conference on Smart and Sustainable Technologies (SpliTech), 2022, pp. 1¡6.

doi:1 0 . 2 3 9 1 9 / S p l i T e c h 5 5 0 8 8 . 2 0 2 2 . 9 8 5 4 2 7 7 .

[15] C. Catalano, P. Afrune, M. Angelelli, G. Maglio, F. Striani, F. Tommasi, Security testing

reuse enhancing active cyber defence in public administration., in: ITASEC, 2021, pp.

120¡132.

[16] M. T. Baldassarre, V. S. Barletta, D. Caivano, A. Piccinno, A visual tool for support-

ing decision-making in privacy oriented software development, in: Proceedings of the

International Conference on Advanced Visual Interfaces, AVI '20, Association for Comput-

ing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2020. URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/3399715.3399818.

doi:1 0 . 1 1 4 5 / 3 3 9 9 7 1 5 . 3 3 9 9 8 1 8 .

[17] M. Teresa Baldassarre, V. Santa Barletta, D. Caivano, A. Piccinno, Integrating security and

privacy in hcd-scrum, in: CHItaly 2021: 14th Biannual Conference of the Italian SIGCHI

Chapter, CHItaly '21, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 2021.

URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/3464385.3464746. doi:10.1145/3464385.3464746.
